SECURITY.md, before:

# Security Documentation

## Overview
This document outlines the security measures implemented in the portfolio application.

## Security Features Implemented

### 1. **Information Disclosure Prevention**
- ✅ All `console.log`, `console.error`, and `console.warn` statements are wrapped in a safe logger utility
- ✅ Logger only outputs in development mode (`import.meta.env.DEV`)
- ✅ Production builds automatically strip debug information via Terser configuration
- ✅ Generic error messages shown to users in production

### 2. **Security Headers**
Implemented via `netlify.toml`:

- **X-Frame-Options**: `DENY` - Prevents clickjacking attacks
- **X-XSS-Protection**: `1; mode=block` - Enables browser XSS filter
- **X-Content-Type-Options**: `nosniff` - Prevents MIME type sniffing
- **Referrer-Policy**: `strict-origin-when-cross-origin` - Controls referrer information
- **Strict-Transport-Security**: `max-age=63072000; includeSubDomains; preload` - Forces HTTPS
- **Content-Security-Policy**: Restricts resource loading to trusted sources only
- **Permissions-Policy**: Disables unnecessary browser features (geolocation, camera, etc.)
- **Cross-Origin Policies**: COEP, COOP, CORP configured for isolation

### 3. **Content Security Policy (CSP)**
```
default-src 'self'
script-src 'self' 'unsafe-inline' 'unsafe-eval' https://fonts.googleapis.com
style-src 'self' 'unsafe-inline' https://fonts.googleapis.com
img-src 'self' data: https: blob:
font-src 'self' data: https://fonts.gstatic.com
connect-src 'self' https://*.supabase.co wss://*.supabase.co
frame-ancestors 'none'
base-uri 'self'
form-action 'self'
```

### 4. **Input Sanitization**
- ✅ `sanitizeInput()` function available in `@/lib/security.ts`
- ✅ Escapes HTML special characters to prevent XSS
- ✅ URL validation to prevent malicious redirects

### 5. **Environment Variable Security**
- ✅ Environment variables validated on startup
- ✅ Missing variables throw errors before app initialization
- ✅ No sensitive data exposed in client-side code
- ✅ `.env.example` provided for reference

### 6. **Rate Limiting**
- ✅ Client-side rate limiter class available
- ✅ Prevents abuse of API calls
- ✅ Configurable attempts and time windows

### 7. **Secure Storage**
- ✅ `secureStorage` wrapper for sessionStorage
- ✅ Base64 encoding for stored data
- ✅ Automatic error handling

### 8. **Build Security**
Configured in `vite.config.ts`:
```javascript
terserOptions: {
  compress: {
    drop_console: true,    // Remove console statements
    drop_debugger: true,   // Remove debugger statements
  }
}
```

## Usage Examples

### Safe Logging
```typescript
import { logger, handleError } from '@/lib/logger';

// Instead of console.log
logger.log('User action:', data);

// Instead of console.error
try {
  // code
} catch (error) {
  const message = handleError(error, 'ComponentName: functionName');
  // Show user-friendly message
}
```

### Input Sanitization
```typescript
import { sanitizeInput, isValidUrl } from '@/lib/security';

const userInput = sanitizeInput(rawInput);
if (isValidUrl(url)) {
  // Safe to use
}
```

### Rate Limiting
```typescript
import { RateLimiter } from '@/lib/security';

const limiter = new RateLimiter(5, 60000); // 5 attempts per minute

if (limiter.isAllowed('user-action')) {
  // Proceed with action
} else {
  // Show rate limit error
}
```

### Secure Storage
```typescript
import { secureStorage } from '@/lib/security';

secureStorage.set('key', { data: 'value' });
const data = secureStorage.get('key');
secureStorage.remove('key');
```

## Security Checklist

- [x] Remove all debug information from production builds
- [x] Implement security headers (CSP, HSTS, etc.)
- [x] Validate environment variables
- [x] Sanitize user inputs
- [x] Implement rate limiting
- [x] Secure storage wrapper
- [x] HTTPS enforcement
- [x] XSS prevention
- [x] Clickjacking prevention
- [x] MIME type sniffing prevention

## Recommendations

### For Production Deployment:
1. ✅ Set all environment variables in Netlify dashboard
2. ✅ Enable HTTPS (automatic with Netlify)
3. ✅ Review and test CSP policy
4. ✅ Monitor security headers with tools like securityheaders.com
5. ⚠️ Consider adding server-side rate limiting
6. ⚠️ Implement authentication/authorization if needed
7. ⚠️ Regular security audits and dependency updates

### Additional Security Measures to Consider:
- Implement CAPTCHA for forms
- Add request signing for API calls
- Implement session management
- Add audit logging
- Set up monitoring and alerts
- Regular penetration testing

## Reporting Security Issues

If you discover a security vulnerability, please email: [your-email@example.com]

**Do not** create public GitHub issues for security vulnerabilities.

## Updates

- **2024-10-30**: Initial security implementation
  - Added safe logger utility
  - Implemented security headers
  - Added CSP policy
  - Created input sanitization utilities
  - Added rate limiting
  - Implemented secure storage

## References

- [OWASP Top 10](https://owasp.org/www-project-top-ten/)
- [Content Security Policy](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/CSP)
- [Security Headers](https://securityheaders.com/)
- [Netlify Security](https://docs.netlify.com/routing/headers/)

Commit message:

Optimize CSP: Remove unsafe-eval and enhance security directives

SECURITY.md, after:

# Security Documentation

## Overview
This document outlines the security measures implemented in the portfolio application.

## Security Features Implemented

### 1. **Information Disclosure Prevention**
- ✅ All `console.log`, `console.error`, and `console.warn` statements are wrapped in a safe logger utility
- ✅ Logger only outputs in development mode (`import.meta.env.DEV`)
- ✅ Production builds automatically strip debug information via Terser configuration
- ✅ Generic error messages shown to users in production

### 2. **Security Headers**
Implemented via `netlify.toml`:

- **X-Frame-Options**: `DENY` - Prevents clickjacking attacks
- **X-XSS-Protection**: `1; mode=block` - Enables browser XSS filter
- **X-Content-Type-Options**: `nosniff` - Prevents MIME type sniffing
- **Referrer-Policy**: `strict-origin-when-cross-origin` - Controls referrer information
- **Strict-Transport-Security**: `max-age=63072000; includeSubDomains; preload` - Forces HTTPS
- **Content-Security-Policy**: Restricts resource loading to trusted sources only
- **Permissions-Policy**: Disables unnecessary browser features (geolocation, camera, etc.)
- **Cross-Origin Policies**: COEP, COOP, CORP configured for isolation

### 3. **Content Security Policy (CSP)**
**Optimized for Security** - Removed `unsafe-eval` for better protection
```
default-src 'self'
script-src 'self' 'unsafe-inline'
style-src 'self' 'unsafe-inline' https://fonts.googleapis.com
img-src 'self' data: https: blob:
font-src 'self' data: https://fonts.gstatic.com
connect-src 'self' https://*.supabase.co wss://*.supabase.co
frame-ancestors 'none'
base-uri 'self'
form-action 'self'
object-src 'none'
media-src 'self'
```

**Note**: `unsafe-inline` is required for React/Vite applications. See `CSP-OPTIMIZATION.md` for details on achieving A+ grade.

### 4. **Input Sanitization**
- ✅ `sanitizeInput()` function available in `@/lib/security.ts`
- ✅ Escapes HTML special characters to prevent XSS
- ✅ URL validation to prevent malicious redirects

### 5. **Environment Variable Security**
- ✅ Environment variables validated on startup
- ✅ Missing variables throw errors before app initialization
- ✅ No sensitive data exposed in client-side code
- ✅ `.env.example` provided for reference

### 6. **Rate Limiting**
- ✅ Client-side rate limiter class available
- ✅ Prevents abuse of API calls
- ✅ Configurable attempts and time windows

### 7. **Secure Storage**
- ✅ `secureStorage` wrapper for sessionStorage
- ✅ Base64 encoding for stored data
- ✅ Automatic error handling

### 8. **Build Security**
Configured in `vite.config.ts`:
```javascript
terserOptions: {
  compress: {
    drop_console: true,    // Remove console statements
    drop_debugger: true,   // Remove debugger statements
  }
}
```

## Usage Examples

### Safe Logging
```typescript
import { logger, handleError } from '@/lib/logger';

// Instead of console.log
logger.log('User action:', data);

// Instead of console.error
try {
  // code
} catch (error) {
  const message = handleError(error, 'ComponentName: functionName');
  // Show user-friendly message
}
```

### Input Sanitization
```typescript
import { sanitizeInput, isValidUrl } from '@/lib/security';

const userInput = sanitizeInput(rawInput);
if (isValidUrl(url)) {
  // Safe to use
}
```

### Rate Limiting
```typescript
import { RateLimiter } from '@/lib/security';

const limiter = new RateLimiter(5, 60000); // 5 attempts per minute

if (limiter.isAllowed('user-action')) {
  // Proceed with action
} else {
  // Show rate limit error
}
```

### Secure Storage
```typescript
import { secureStorage } from '@/lib/security';

secureStorage.set('key', { data: 'value' });
const data = secureStorage.get('key');
secureStorage.remove('key');
```

## Security Checklist

- [x] Remove all debug information from production builds
- [x] Implement security headers (CSP, HSTS, etc.)
- [x] Validate environment variables
- [x] Sanitize user inputs
- [x] Implement rate limiting
- [x] Secure storage wrapper
- [x] HTTPS enforcement
- [x] XSS prevention
- [x] Clickjacking prevention
- [x] MIME type sniffing prevention

## Recommendations

### For Production Deployment:
1. ✅ Set all environment variables in Netlify dashboard
2. ✅ Enable HTTPS (automatic with Netlify)
3. ✅ Review and test CSP policy
4. ✅ Monitor security headers with tools like securityheaders.com
5. ⚠️ Consider adding server-side rate limiting
6. ⚠️ Implement authentication/authorization if needed
7. ⚠️ Regular security audits and dependency updates

### Additional Security Measures to Consider:
- Implement CAPTCHA for forms
- Add request signing for API calls
- Implement session management
- Add audit logging
- Set up monitoring and alerts
- Regular penetration testing

## Reporting Security Issues

If you discover a security vulnerability, please email: [your-email@example.com]

**Do not** create public GitHub issues for security vulnerabilities.

## Updates

- **2024-10-30**: Initial security implementation
  - Added safe logger utility
  - Implemented security headers
  - Added CSP policy
  - Created input sanitization utilities
  - Added rate limiting
  - Implemented secure storage

## References

- [OWASP Top 10](https://owasp.org/www-project-top-ten/)
- [Content Security Policy](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/CSP)
- [Security Headers](https://securityheaders.com/)
- [Netlify Security](https://docs.netlify.com/routing/headers/)
